Thallophyta includes plants with primitive and simple body structures. The plant body is thallus, they may be filamentous, colonial, branched or unbranched. Examples include green algae, red algae and brown algae. Common examples are Volvox, Fucus, Spirogyra, Chara, Polysiphonia, Ulothrix, etc.


Bryophytes do not have vascular tissues. The plant body has root-like, stem-like and leaf-like structures. Bryophytes are terrestrial plants but are known as “amphibians of the plant kingdom” as they require water for sexual reproduction. They are present in moist and shady places. Bryophyta includes mosses, hornworts and liverworts. Some of the common examples are Marchantia, Funaria, Sphagnum, Antheoceros, etc.


Pteridophytes have a well-differentiated plant body into root, stem and leaves. They have a vascular system for the conduction of water and other substances. Some of the common examples are Selaginella, Equisetum, Pteris, etc.


Gymnosperms have a well-differentiated plant body and vascular tissues. They bear naked seeds, i.e. seeds are not enclosed within a fruit. Some of the common examples of gymnosperms are Cycas, Pinus, Ephedra, etc.

Angiosperms are seed-bearing vascular plants with a well-differentiated plant body. The seeds of angiosperms are enclosed within the fruits. Angiosperms are widely distributed and vary greatly in size, e.g. Wolffia is small measuring about 0.1 cm and Eucalyptus trees are around 100 m tall. Angiosperms are further divided into monocotyledons and dicotyledons according to the number of cotyledons present in the seeds. Some of the common examples are mango, rose, tomato, onion, wheat, maize, etc.



----------------------------------------------------------
Animal Kingdom

Arthropod any of a phylum of invertebrate animals (as insects, arachnids, and crustaceans) having a segmented body, jointed limbs, and a shell of chitin that is shed periodically


Fish are aquatic vertebrate animals that have gills but lack limbs with digits, like fingers or toes. Recall that vertebrates are animals with internal backbones. Most fish are streamlined in their general body form.


Amphibian means two-lives. They spend their lives in water and on land.
Amphibians are cold-blooded, ectothermic animals. They also come under the class vertebrates (meaning they have backbone or spine).Amphibians breathe through skin and they go through metamorphosis.Amphibians begin their life in water with gills and tails. They develop lungs and legs as they grow for their land life.


Reptiles are cold-blooded vertebrates. (Vertebrates have backbones.) They have dry skin covered with scales or bony plates and usually lay soft-shelled eggs.